The President:
A few months ago, I received
a letter from a woman named
Brenda Breece.
I wanted to share her story
because it speaks to what a lot
of families are going through --
and it offers a good example of
the kind of responsibility that's
needed in Washington right now.
Brenda's a mom and a special
ed teacher from Missouri.
Her husband, David, was employed
at the local Chrysler plant for
nearly four decades.
They've worked hard
their whole lives.
But like a lot of folks, they've taken
some hits over the past few years.
When the Chrysler plant closed,
David had to take early retirement.
His pension helps, but it's
half of what he earned before.
Meanwhile, because
of budget cuts,
Brenda has had to buy school
supplies for her students out of
her own pocket -- because it's her
job and she cares about those kids.
Money has been tight, but
they're doing the best they can.
And like so many families, they
are sacrificing what they don't
need so they can afford
what really matters.
This is what Brenda told me.
"I feel my
family is frugal.
"We go to the
movies...once a month,
but usually we just wait for
them to come out on TV...
I watch the food budget...We
combine trips into town [and]
use coupons ... and we trim each
other's hair when we need a haircut."
So Brenda and her husband know
what they can do without.
But they also know what investments
are too important to sacrifice.
Their daughter, Rachel, is a
sophomore in college with a 4.0
grade point average.
The tuition's a big expense.
But it's worth it, because it
will give her the chance to
achieve her dreams.
In fact, Brenda is looking
for a second job to ensure,
as she put it, "the money is there
to help Rachel with her future."
Families across this country
understand what it takes to
manage a budget.
They understand what it takes to
make ends meet without forgoing
important investments
like education.
Well, it's time Washington acted
as responsibly as our families do.
And on Monday, I'm proposing a
new budget that will help us
live within our means while
investing in our future.
My budget freezes annual
domestic spending for the next
five years -- even on programs
I care deeply about --
which will reduce the deficit by
more than $400 billion over the
next decade.
This freeze will bring this type
of spending to its lowest level
as a share of the economy since
Dwight Eisenhower was president.
We've stripped down the budget
by getting rid of waste.
For example, we're getting rid
of thousands of government-owned
buildings that sit empty
because they aren't needed.
I've also proposed freezing
salaries for hardworking
government employees, because
everyone has to do their part.
And I'm going to make sure
politics doesn't add to our
deficit, by vetoing any bill
that contains earmarks.
And yet, just as the Breece
family is making difficult
sacrifices while still
investing in the future --
by helping, for instance, their
daughter pay her tuition --
my budget does the same.
I'm proposing that we invest in
what will do the most to grow
the economy in
the years to come.
This means job-creating
investments in roads,
high-speed rail, and broadband.
This means cutting-edge research
that holds the promise of
creating countless jobs
and whole new industries,
like clean energy
and biotechnology.
And it means improving our
schools and making college more
affordable -- to give every
young person the chance to
fulfill his or her potential,
and receive the job training
they need to succeed.
Because it would be a mistake
to balance the budget by
sacrificing our
children's education.
So, after a decade
of rising deficits,
this budget asks Washington
to live within its means,
while at the same time
investing in our future.
It cuts what we can't afford to
pay for what we cannot do without.
That's what families
do in hard times.
And that's what our
country has to do as well.
Thanks so much.